5 Yoga Poses For Shoulder Pain Relief
=====================================

URL: https://habuild.in/habitology/asana-mudra/5-yoga-poses-for-shoulder-pain-relief/
Published: 2025-04-04T06:39:24
Tags: Habits, Healthy Habits, Self-Care, Shoulder Pain Relief, Stretching, Well-being, Yoga, Yoga for Shoulder Pain

Shoulder pain is very common due to our modern lifestyle. Long working hours at a desk, overuse of mobile phones, heavy backpacks and household chores (like cooking and cleaning) can take a toll on our shoulders, which we hardly realise. People take painkillers and go for massages, but they are not permanent solutions. On the contrary, yoga for shoulder pain is a holistic as well as sustainable method to treat shoulder pain while also making the muscles strong and durable.

Causes of Shoulder Pain

Shoulder pain can arise from various reasons including:

Bad Posture:
 Working, looking at a mobile phone or watching TV with a slouch puts strain on the shoulder muscles.

Frozen Shoulder (Adhesive Capsulitis): 
A state of rigidity and loss of motion.

Muscle imbalance:
 Weak or tight muscles around the shoulders and neck.

Repetitive Strain Injury (RSI):
 Common in office workers spending extended periods on typing or using the mouse.

Lifting Heavy:
 Carrying bags, groceries and toddlers can be hard on the shoulders.

Reduced Mobility:
 Sedentary life causes discomfort and stiffness of shoulder joints and muscles.

Best Yoga Poses for Shoulder Pain Relief

Yoga originated in India and has been practiced for thousands of years for physical and mental well-being. Yoga asanas and stretching regularly help reduce pain, improve in posture and prevent frozen shoulder and other issues. So, let’s look at some of the best yoga for frozen shoulder and shoulder pain relief.

1. Tadasana (Mountain Pose) with Shoulder Rolls

How to do it:

Stand or sit with feet together, spine straight and shoulders relaxed.

Inhale and roll your shoulders forward.

Exhale and roll them backwards.

Repeat 10 times.

Why it works:

Improves blood flow and promotes relaxation to the shoulder muscles.

2. Gomukhasana (Cow Face Pose)

How to do it:

Sit in a comfortable cross-legged position.

Bring your right arm up, bend at the elbow and reach behind your upper back.

Place your left arm behind your back and reach for your right hand fingers.

Hold for 20–30 seconds, then repeat on the other side.

A yoga strap or dupatta can be used instead of clasping if it is difficult.

Do it 10 times.

Why it works:

Gomukhasana is great for opening up the shoulders and increasing flexibility.

3. 
Uttana Shishosana (Puppy pose)

How to do it:

Get down on all your fours with your palms and knees on the floor.

Slide your arms forward while bringing your chest and chin down.

Make sure to keep your hips raised upwards.

Hold for 30 seconds and switch to the other side.

Why it works:

This asana stretches the shoulder muscles, promotes blood flow and improves posture.

4. 
Garudasana (Eagle Arms Stretch)

How to do it:

Sit on chair or stand comfortably.

Cross your left arm over your right, and place your palms together.

Slightly lift your elbows while keeping your shoulders relaxed.

Hold for 20 seconds, then switch sides.

Why it works:

This does wonders for stretching the shoulders and upper back.

5. 
Balasana (Child’s Pose)

How to do it:

Sit in Vajrasana and bend down while extending your arms forward.

Slowly stretch your arms and shoulders forward and try to touch your forehead to the ground.

Hold for 20 to 30 seconds.

Why it works:

This restorative pose helps release tension in the shoulders and back.

If you’re having trouble getting started with the above yoga shoulder exercises, you can always choose to start off with our 14 day yoga challenge, which will help you ease into it and help you progress day by day.

Basic Yoga Stretching Exercises for Shoulder Pain

Try out these basic stretches below for daily relief:

Neck stretches-
 Keep your right hand on the left side of your head and gently push it down to the right. Hold for 10 seconds and change sides.

Seated Shoulder Stretch- 
 Pull one arm across the chest and hold for 20 seconds. (Avoid this stretch if you have pain in the shoulder joints. Only perform this stretch if you have pain in the shoulder muscles.)

Arm raises- 
Hold a pillow or a book and keep your arms straight. Lift it up over your head and bring it back down. Repeat 10 times.

For more such exercises for shoulder pain, click on this link and watch the video to practice along!

Final Words

Yoga for frozen shoulder and shoulder pain offers more than a quick fix; it provides a lasting relief that boosts overall health. These yoga poses for shoulder pain are easy to do, effective and you don’t need fancy gear. Just grab a yoga mat and set aside a few minutes each day. When you make yoga for shoulder pain part of your daily life, you can prevent and ease shoulder discomfort while also making your body more flexible and strong. If you’re struggling with a frozen shoulder or just feel stiff, these basic yoga stretching exercises can do a lot to bring you relief and make you feel better.

And what’s more, with 
Habuild
, you can improve shoulder mobility, reduce shoulder pain and improve your well being from home. Make sure to join our 
14 day yoga challenge
 to get started with guided sessions and see the difference it can make in just 2 weeks!  So join now and start your wellness journey today!
