Yoga Poses for Knee Pain Relief: A Beginner’s Guide
===================================================

URL: https://habuild.in/habitology/asana-mudra/yoga-poses-for-knee-pain-relief-a-beginners-guide/
Published: 2025-04-03T09:33:49
Tags: Habits, Healthy Habits, Knee Pain, Knee pain relief, Self-Care, Yoga

There was a time when knee pain only used to happen in old age. Now, the times have changed, and guess what? Even younger adults are facing these issues. Why? 

Because of long sitting hours and no physical activity in between, and that’s where the concept of yoga can save us. Yoga does not require any pre-preparations; it just needs your will to start somewhere, and it will do its own magic. So in this blog, let’s unlock a few yoga poses that we do daily to reduce your knee pain.

How yoga helps with knee pain:

Yoga focuses on gentle stretching, muscle engagement, and alignment, but consistency is key! Practicing these asanas for just 
15 minutes
 daily can maximize their benefits.

Physical health benefits:
 It helps in increased mobility and reduces stiffness over time. Specially yoga stretches for knee pain reduce the risk of future injuries as it improves your flexibility and boosts immunity.

You can check this video to learn a few exercises for knee pain relief:

Words of inspiration:

This story is from one of our members, Darshini Kapadia, who has completed her 50 days with 
Habuild Yoga
. Before joining us, she was struggling with acute knee joint pain in both knees, which made her daily activities challenging. However, with our regular yoga and exercises, she has experienced 90% relief from her pain, and now she even feels energetic throughout the day. This journey has not only improved her physical well-being but also enhanced her overall vitality.  She is happy, satisfied and grateful that she is able to find a natural solution to her problem. 

This is just one inspiring story that we have shared. By joining our 14-Day Yoga Challenge, you can also make your own story by experiencing the difference yoga can make in just a few weeks.

Yoga poses for knee pain:

Yoga stretches might be good for you for better flexibility and mobility. With this, you can also add a few yoga asanas that will help you with frequent pains as well as other overall benefits. A blend of stretches and asanas can be a game-changer for your health:

1. Quadriceps stretch:

What happens if we stretch these muscles?

These are the muscles at the front of your thighs. Tight quads can pull on the patella, causing knee pain. Stretching them can relieve this tension.

How to do it:

Sit on your knees, then bend your knee a little, bringing your ankle close to your body.

Pull your leg with your hand slightly and start lifting your knee off the ground.

Repeat the same pose for the other leg as well.If you have sharp knee pain, keep the movement slow and controlled.

Yoga asanas that you can do:

Supta Vajrasana (Reclined Thunderbolt Pose), Anjaneyasana (Low Lunge Pose), Ardha Bhekasana (Half Frog Pose), Setu Bandhasana (Bridge Pose)

Benefits for knee pain:

The best yoga for knee pain relief is quad stretching, it helps in reducing knee stiffness. Stretching of the quadriceps enhances your flexibility and core, which results in less discomfort in your knee joint.

2. 
Supine Leg Lift:

What happens if we stretch these muscles?

Supine leg lift 
improves flexibility, helps in reducing the tightness of the muscles, and alleviates lower body stiffness.

How to do it:

Lie on your back with one leg bent and the other leg straight.

Place your hands behind your head for support, and your core should be engaged.

Slowly lift the straight leg upward while keeping the other foot flat on the floor.

Lower the leg back down with control, then repeat on the other side.

Yoga asanas that you can do:

Supta Padangusthasana (Reclining Hand to Big Toe Pose), Uttanpadasana (Raised Leg Pose), Setu Bandhasana (Bridge Pose), Ananda Balasana (Happy Baby Pose) 

Benefits for knee pain:

Helps in improving knee stability and overall leg support.

Reduces knee pain by muscle stretching, which reduces joint strain.

3. 
Leg Raise Pose:

What happens if we stretch these muscles?

Leg raise pose improves leg stability, improves hamstring flexibility which prevents the risk of future injuries, and supports knee and hip function, which helps reduce lower back strain.

How to do it
:

Sit on a sturdy chair with your back straight, and your feet should be flat on the floor.

Extend your arms straight in front of you at shoulder height.

Lift one leg straight up, it should be parallel to the ground, keeping the other foot on the floor.

Engage your core, hold for a few seconds, then lower your leg slowly, repeat the same with the other leg.

Yoga asanas that you can do:

Setu Bandhasana (Bridge Pose), Supta Padangusthasana (Reclining Hand-to-Big-Toe Pose), Ardha Hanumanasana (Half Splits Pose), Uttanasana (Standing Forward Bend)

Benefits for knee pain:

Strong hamstrings help you in day-to-day activities. The best yoga for knee pain relief is one that balances your knees and stabilizes the knee joint.

4. 
Quad strengthening:

What happens if we stretch these muscles?

Quad strengthening improves mobility, enhances knee stability and supports joint health.

How to do it:

Start by placing a pillow under your knees and keeping your legs extended. 

Now, very slowly push your knees into the pillow; you should feel tightening in your thigh muscles.

For 5-10 seconds, hold this pose if you can and repeat it 10-15 times for effective results.

Yoga asanas that you can do:

Utkatasana (Chair Pose), Setu Bandhasana (Bridge Pose), Virabhadrasana II (Warrior II Pose), Anjaneyasana (Low Lunge Pose), Tadasana with Quad Engagement (Mountain Pose with Knee Lift)

Benefits for knee pain:

This yoga asana will boost your joint lubrication.

Yoga stretches for knee pain will also help you in improving your standing and

walking stability, leading to less tiredness and better stability.

5. Calf Stretch:

What happens if we stretch these muscles?

Stretching the calves improves ankle mobility, which reduces stiffness and relieves foot-achilles tension.

How to do it:

Stand facing a wall and place your hands on it for support.

Position one foot forward, your toes against the wall and your heel on the ground.

Gently lean forward, you should be able to press the toes upward to stretch the calf and ankle.

Hold for a few seconds, then switch legs and repeat the stretch.

Yoga asanas that you can do:

Adho Mukha Svanasana (Downward-Facing Dog Pose), Anjaneyasana (Low Lunge Pose), Parsvottanasana (Pyramid Pose), Uttanasana (Standing Forward Bend)

Benefits for knee pain:

Improves knee stability; loosening of tight quads prevents many types of strain, which provides better movement.

Conclusion

Your knees carry you through life’s journey: every step, every problem, every happiness and every triumph. With the help of our 
14-day yoga challenge
, you can nurture them with better flexibility, less pain, and more care. With each breath and stretch you do, you are just not easing your pain but giving yourself freedom from all the restrictions that you might face because of uneasiness and pain. So trust your body, be patient with yourself, and do yoga for knee pain every day. Let yoga guide you toward a pain-free, stronger, and more vibrant life.
